One of the biggest ways that HCM L5 has improved the way that we can create web pages is with forms
and in this video I will be looking at a few of the cool HD and L5 features that you can use in your
sites with usually just a single line of code.
So lets set ourselves up first off with a new folder so so within our complete web developer of course
folder I'm going to create a new one which I'll call 10.
Jim L5 CSSA 3 and then I'll get back over to my text editor.
I've still got my mobile app page and I'll just get rid of everything that we need that then
and we'll treat that as our starting point.
And then I'll use File Save As and I'll save it in our new folder each team of 5 CSSA 3 is and then
I'll open that up.
In Crime
and now we're ready to go.
So let's set up a simple form.
We're not going to worry about bootstrap or anything this time not particularly concerned about style
here.
It's more functionality.
So let's start with our humble input element and we'll give it a type of text.
And the first thing I'm going to show you is actually something that we've used throughout the course
but HCM L5 specific and that is the placeholder and you know how that works.
It just means that the browser will show that text and then when you start typing it will disappear.
So that's familiar enough but we wouldn't have it without HVM L5
just put that in a paragraph tag and then let's look at our first new feature.
And the first one I'm going to show you is autofocus.
So again we've got a simple input with a type of text and all we have to do with autofocus is add the
word autofocus to that input and then as soon as we load the page it will take the focus from any other
element.
So if you want your user to particularly start their form with a particular input then that's what autofocus
will do for you.
Note that in sh t m l which is a stricter version of HVM L5 you can't just use empty attributes like
that.
So you would have to specify autofocus is equal to autofocus like that.
And that will still work in HCM L5 but in extreme of itself it's not as fussy.
So you can get away with just putting autofocus.
That's perfectly fine.
So that's pretty cool.
Weavings for Phil know we can very easily with him L5 specify that the browser should not autocomplete.
So most browsers remember the content that users have typed into specific fields but in some cases we
might want to switch that off.
And that's really easy to do that shmo 5.
We just use autocomplete as of now here that would make any difference.
But if you wanted to get a user's credit card number or something like that without predicting it then
you could use autocomplete is off.
Note that on is the default.
So we wouldn't have to use that for next co-feature.
I want to show you is required.
So we saw in the J query section how to do validation with Javascript.
And later we did it with HP as well but some basic validation is built in to HCM L5.
And one thing we can do is use the attribute for quiet
to force a certain field to be filled in.
So I'll just put a
submit field at the end of
and then let's have a look.
If I try and submit then it will insist that we fill out that field a related task that we've already
seen is one with a type of email
and let's put that above the submit.
So if I put some text in there that's not an email address and try and submit or in fact I get that
error first.
But if I then fill in that field and submit it then it gives us a nice error message.
If they don't put a valid email address in.
So let's just label these a little bit.
So we've got a placeholder
autofocus
autocomplete of required
and email.
All right.
Getting to more complex stuff we can use a pattern to insist that an input has a certain pattern to
it.
So we would use that
like this.
We use the pattern attribute to it for example we wanted to insist that they enter a single digit.
Then we could use square brackets and zero to nine.
And then as long as I validated all of those if I put a two digit number in there it says please match
the correct format.
And I get it right then it's admits the form.
These patterns are standard rejects for regular expressions which again we saw in the chapter.
But if you want to check out some examples
there's a whole Web site out there.
Could Tim L5 paten dot com which gives you a bunch of examples.
So for example you could specify a user name with two to 20 characters a valid Twitter user name it
cetera et cetera.
You get the idea.
So that's a really easy way to validate certain data types without even using any javascript.
If you thought that was cool though Wait till you see this with HDMI L5 we can set up autocomplete in
our forms again without using any javascript.
And we do that by setting up a data list
with a set and Id say if I use my classic example I might want to have a data list of names and then
within that data list I would set up options just like with drop downs that might have a value of Rob
and then a display of up as well.
I might have cast an
Tom A
and Ralphy
that we get.
And then I just set up my text input as usual.
And I add a list to it with an ID matching the data list
that simple.
So now if I start typing that it will predict which ones I'm looking for and even give me a little dropdown
of all the available ones as well.
So I think that's a hugely powerful new option and in many ways preferable to a drop down because you
can get to what you're wanting to enter much quicker especially if you've got a long list of potential
values.
You can even add a dropdown
within the data list itself
and then if your browser doesn't support the new data list feature then it will show a drop down menu
there.
That's a really nice elegant way of degrading.
Should the autocomplete feature not be available.
Another useful feature is being able to link an input to a specific form say by default boot aged him
or five if you wanted an input to be linked to the form you would have to put it inside that form.
But that's not always use if you're generating a table and you want a number of many forms within that
table.
And quite often you'll want to put your input outside the form but that's now easy to do with actually
him at 5.
So you can put your code outside the form and you just link it to a specific form by its ID
simple and then it will appear wherever you want it on the page.
But when that form is submitted then this data will be submitted with it on a similar note.
Previously when a form was submitted you could only have a single action option on the form itself.
So we might have something like pursers form don't pay HP but you might want to go to different locations
depending on which submit button has been clicked and you can do that very easily using the form action
on your submit button and you can then just specify
a different u r l for that particular submit button.
You can even specify a particular method for each button although I'm not too sure why you'd want to
do that.
You can have get some buttons and post for others.
The final new cool thing I want to show you with form is how easy it is to upload multiple files with
each team L5 forms.
So the traditional input for files would be an input with type of file.
Simple as that.
And then you would choose your file in the usual way.
If you want these are to be able to select multiple files you just add the multiple attribute to your
input and
you can then choose that's just pick two files using command or control on Windows and then it's selected
two files and then both of those will be updated when you submit the form and that's it.
I hope you'll agree with me that all of those are very useful and save a lot of time in programming
if you want to do any of this sort of validation autocomplete or fancy submitting.
That's just the beginning of HCM L5 though.
And in the next video we'll be looking at how we can use HVM L5 to insert audio and video very easily
into our web pages.